.TH "ros-use" "1" "" "" ""
.nh \" Turn off hyphenation by default.
.PP
ros\-use \- sets the default implementation used by roswell
.SH synopsis
.PP
\f[B]ros [options] use\f[] impl[/version]
.PP
impl : The name of an implementation which is already installed.
New implementations can be downloaded by \f[I]ros\-install\f[](1).
The list of installed implementations is available in
\f[I]ros\-list\f[](1).
.PP
version: : The version specifier.
The string representation of the version (e.g.
.) depends on each implementation and roswell generally follows the
representation used by the implementation.
In addition, \f[I]a special version name "system"\f[] tells roswell to
use the implementation that is installed in your system, which should be
in PATH.
.SH example
.PP
ros use sbcl : use the latest SBCL among several versions of SBCLs
installed by \f[I]ros\-install\f[].
This is compiled from the source, which may take some time to install
but allows SLIME to jump to the implementation source code.
.PP
ros use sbcl\-bin : use the latest stable SBCL binary downloaded from
vendor\[aq]s website.
Roswell uses this by default.
\f[C]sbcl\-bin\f[] tends to be an older version compared to
\f[C]sbcl\f[], but surely newer than your \f[I]apt\-get\f[] installed
counterpart!
.PP
ros use sbcl/1.3.1 : use the compiled SBCL 1.3.1.
.PP
ros use sbcl\-bin/1.3.1 : use the prebuilt SBCL 1.3.1.
.PP
ros use sbcl/system : use the SBCL available in the PATH.
.PP
ros use ccl : use the CCL compiled from the source.
Same set of version specifiers as for SBCL can be applied.
.PP
Roswell also supports \f[I]abcl\f[], \f[I]acl\f[], \f[I]clisp\f[],
\f[I]cmu\f[] and \f[I]ecl\f[].
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
\f[I]sbcl\f[](1), \f[I]ros\f[](1), \f[I]ros\-install\f[](1),
\f[I]ros\-list\f[](1)
.SH AUTHORS
Roswell Project Team.
