.TH "ros-template" "1" "" "" ""
.nh \" Turn off hyphenation by default.
.SH Synopsis
.PP
\f[B]ros template\f[] [add|rm|list|show] [OPTIONS] [TEMPLATE [ARGS...]]
.PP
Register, manage and remove the templates.
.PP
The format of ARGS is same as the lambda list except the following
translation:
.IP \[bu] 2
&key, &optional, &rest corresponds to --key, --optional, --rest,
respectively.
.IP \[bu] 2
Abbreviation as -k, -o, -r are available.
.IP \[bu] 2
Each argument is separated by --, instead of being surrounded by
parentheses.
.IP \[bu] 2
Optional and keyword arguments can have a default value.
When no defauilt value is specified, it implies an empty string.
.SH Examples
.PP
The following example shows how to register a template file (an asdf
system definition) named \f[I]tmpl.asd\f[], then instantiate the
template with some arguments.
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
$\ cat\ tmpl.asd
(asdf:defsystem\ NAME\ :author\ "AUTHOR"\ :depends-on\ DEP\ :short-description\ "library\ by\ AUTHOR.")
$\ ros\ template\ add\ tmpl.asd\ NAME\ AUTHOR\ --optional\ DEP\ "(:alexandria)"
$\ ros\ init\ result.asd\ tmpl.asd\ bob-utilities\ Bob
Successfully\ generated:\ result.asd
$\ cat\ result.asd:
(asdf:defsystem\ bob-utilities\ :author\ "Bob"\ :depends-on\ (:alexandria)\ :short-description\ "library\ by\ Bob.")
\f[]
.fi
.PP
Notice the arguments are READ.
Thus you may use "#." readmacro in order to evaluate the arguments when
the template is instantiated.
For example,
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
$\ echo\ $USER
Bob
$\ ros\ init\ result.asd\ tmpl.asd\ bob-utilities\ \[aq]#.(uiop:getenv\ "USER")\[aq]
$\ cat\ result.asd:
(asdf:defsystem\ bob-utilities\ :author\ "Bob"\ :depends-on\ (:alexandria)\ :short-description\ "library\ by\ Bob.")
\f[]
.fi
.PP
The results are PRINCed, so the results are not escaped with "".
If you want the results to be escaped, it should be done in the template
(as in "AUTHOR").
.SH Subcommands
.TP
.B add
Registers a file \f[I]TEMPLATE\f[].
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B list
Shows the list of the registered templates.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B show
Describes the contents of \f[I]TEMPLATE\f[] which is already registered.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B rm
Ensures that a template \f[I]TEMPLATE\f[] is removed.
.RS
.RE
.SH Options for \f[I]ros template add\f[]
.IP \[bu] 2
-f,--force : Overwrites the existing template with the same name without
asking
.IP \[bu] 2
-r,--recursive : register the directory recursively.
TEMPLATE should be a directory in order to make this option meaningful.
.IP \[bu] 2
--name NAME : register the template with a given name, not the original
filename.
.SH Misc
.PP
Registered templates are stored in directory $ROSWELL_HOME/templates/ .
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
\f[I]ros\f[](1) \f[I]ros-init\f[](1)
.SH AUTHORS
Roswell Project Team.
