.TH "ros-dump" "1" "" "" ""
.nh \" Turn off hyphenation by default.
.PP
ros\-dump \- make a dumped image of a roswell script
.SH Synopsis
.PP
\f[B]ros [OPTIONS1...] dump [OPTIONS2...] MODE\f[] args...
.PP
\f[C]OPTIONS1\f[] specify the standard roswell options such as
\f[C]\-L\f[] or \f[C]\-m\ LISP\f[].
\f[C]OPTIONS2\f[] specify the image reduction options we describe later.
\f[C]MODE\f[] is either \f[C]output\f[] or \f[C]executable\f[].
.SH Description
.PP
\f[C]ros\-dump\f[] creates a dumped lisp image of the state after
processing all options \f[C]OPTIONS1\f[].
.PP
It has two modes \f[C]output\f[] and \f[C]executable\f[].
In both modes, the global environment (e.g.
global binding to special variables such as \f[C]*package*\f[]) of the
state just after the restart is the environment which was effective when
the script was dumped.
.PP
The dumped image is generally not compatible between the different
implementations, and also between the versions.
.SH Dump modes
.SS output [\-f] [\-o OUTPUT] NAME
.PP
It loads the roswell script \f[C]NAME\f[] and saves the current lisp
state to an image.
.PP
The image file is by default written to an internal directory of roswell
in an organized manner, i.e., somewhere under
\f[C]$ROSWELL_INSTALL_DIR\f[] deduced by the current implementation, its
version and the given NAME.
.PP
When the output file already exists, the command fails with an error
code.
.PP
The image can be loaded by \f[C]ros\ \-m\ IMAGE\f[].
When restarting from the image, standard roswell subcommands and
additional arguments to the script are also available, for example
\f[C]ros\ run\f[] to resume with a repl, or \f[C]\-\-restart\ FUNC\f[]
to call a specific function, leaving some flexibility.
.TP
.B \f[C]\-o\ OUTPUT\f[]
The image is written to \f[C]OUTPUT\f[] instead of the default location.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]\-f\f[]
Force output when the output already exists.
.RS
.RE
.SS executable NAME [\-o OUTPUT]
.PP
When a script is dumped with \f[C]executable\f[], the dumped image
becomes an self\-contained executable binary which implies
\f[C]\-\-restart\ main\f[].
.PP
If \f[C]OUTPUT\f[] is given, the resulting binary is written to this
file.
Otherwise, the output filename is deduced from \f[C]NAME\f[] and is
written in the same directory.
On Windows and if \f[C]SCRIPT\f[] has \f[C]\&.ros\f[] extension, the
filename will be \f[C]SCRIPT.exe\f[].
On the other systems, the result will be \f[C]SCRIPT\f[] (without
extension).
.PP
This feature is supported on SBCL, CCL, CMUCL, CLISP, ECL.
.SH Image Reduction Options
.PP
These options unlink some references to the runtime objects and allow
gcs to reclaim some memory, which eventually reduces the size of the
dumped image.
.PP
Care should be taken to ensure the resulting program works as expected,
as some of these operation may destroy the common assumptions of the
conforming programs.
For example, package\-related reduction options may inhibit the runtime
calls to \f[C]READ\f[] after the restart.
.PP
Reduction options are processed in the left\-to\-right manner.
.TP
.B \-\-disable\-compression, \-\-enable\-compression, \-c
These options disable/enable/enable the core compression feature in
SBCL.
Thus this option is meaningful
.RS
.RE
.PP
only on SBCL.
Compression is enabled by default.
.TP
.B \-\-remove\-docstrings
This option removes all docstrings from all symbols in the entire lisp
image.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \-\-delete\-package PKG
This option can be specified multiple times.
It uninterns the symbols in PACKAGE, calls \f[C]makeunbound\f[] and
\f[C]fmakeunbound\f[] on each symbol and deletes the package.
Package names are automatically string\-upcase\[aq]d.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \-\-delete\-all\-packages
This option applies \-\-delete\-package PKG on all packages, except some
blacklisted packages (keyword, roswell, ROS.SCRIPT.DUMP, and the package
of the main function symbol).
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \-\-delete\-packages\-except PACKAGE
This option can be specified multiple times.
It is identical to \-\-delete\-all\-packages except that it adds PACKAGE
to the blacklist.
Package names are automatically string\-upcase\[aq]d.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \-\-destroy\-packages\-sbcl
This is an sbcl\-specific option which is even more aggressive than the
above methods (>10MB reduction).
It destroys the package system by modifying the internal tables for
packages, cleaning up the caches for package\-use\-list etc.
The blacklist is shared among \-\-delete\-all\-packages and
\-\-destroy\-packages\-sbcl.
However, this method does not call fmakunbound/makunbound, so combining
the two methods can result in a more aggressive image size reduction.
Due to the nature of this option, it is desirable to specify it as the
last method (i.e.
rightmost).
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \-\-purify, \-\-no\-purify
This is common to CCL, SBCL, CMUCL.
Moves all objects to the static space
.RS
.RE
.PP
where GC does not scan, for the later performance of GC.
Purification is enabled by default.
.TP
.B \-\-impurify, \-\-no\-impurify
This is an CCL\-specific option (enabled by default).
.RS
.RE
.PP
It moves all objects to the dynamic space before saving the image.
This allows the static\-space objects to be GC\[aq]ed.
When purification is enabled, it impurifies all objects before running
the purifying GC.
.TP
.B \-\-delete\-debug\-info
This removes the debug infomation of functions (used to show the stack
frame etc), as well as the source locations and the deprecation
information of various symbols.
SBCL only.
This option has a large effect (+10MB reduction).
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \-\-delete\-macro\-definitions,
\-\-delete\-compiler\-macro\-definitions
This removes all definitions of macros and compiler\-macros, assuming
that no runtime compilation/interpretation of code will be performed.
This option should be portable across implementations.
It has ~2MB reduction on SBCL.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \-\-delete\-compiler\-information\-sbcl
This is an SBCL\-specific option which is more aggressive than the above
methods (~4MB reduction).
In addition to the macro and the compiler\-macro definitions, it
destroys the internal compiler systems of SBCL by also removing the
inlining information, IR1 transformer and IR2 (VOP).
.RS
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
\f[I]sbcl\f[](1) \f[I]ros\f[](1) \f[I]ros\-init\f[](1)
.SH AUTHORS
Roswell Project Team.
