.TH "ros" "1" "" "" ""
.nh \" Turn off hyphenation by default.
.PP
Roswell \- Common Lisp environment setup Utility
.SH Synopsis
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[B]ros\f[] [\f[B]options\f[]] \f[C][command\ [args...]\f[]
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[B]ros\f[] [\f[B]options\f[]] \f[C][\-\-]script\ [args...]\f[]
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[B]ros\f[] [\f[B]options\f[]] < script.ros
.SH Description
.PP
Roswell is a command line tool for installing and managing Common Lisp
implementations, as well as a scripting infrastructure for templating,
writing, executing, compiling, distributing, downloading and installing
ROSWELL\-SCRIPTS written in Common Lisp.
.PP
Currently roswell supports sbcl, ccl, clisp and ecl as its supported
lisp implementations.
For further details see \f[I]ros\-install(1)\f[].
.PP
Scripts installed by roswell will be system wide if appropriate
directory is included in PATH.
.SH Subcommands
.PP
In an order of utility/frequency.
.TP
.B install
Install a given implementation (e.g.
sbcl, ccl) or a system (e.g.
alexandria) for roswell environment.
See \f[I]ros\-install(1)\f[].
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B init [name[.ros]]
Create a new ros script
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B dump [executable|output] [script]
Dump an image of the script for the faster startup or to make an
executable.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B build
Make an executable from the script.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B run
Initiate REPL
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B use
Change the default implementation used by roswell.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B list
List the various informations.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B config
Get and set the options.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B setup
Run the initial setup
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B emacs
Launch emacs with slime.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B wait
Wait forever, used for daemonizing the script.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B delete
Delete an installed implementation.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B version
Show the roswell version information.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B help
Show the subcommand help.
.RS
.RE
.SH Options
.PP
Options are processed in left\-to\-right order.
.TP
.B \-w CODE \-\-wrap CODE
Run the script with a shell wrapper CODE, e.g.
rlwrap
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \-m IMAGE \-\-image IMAGE
Continue from Lisp image IMAGE
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \-L NAME \-\-lisp NAME
Run the script with a lisp impl NAME[/VERSION] if present, e.g.
sbcl\-bin, sbcl/1.2.16.
Fails otherwise.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \-l FILE \-\-load FILE
Load a lisp file FILE while building
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \-S X \-\-source\-registry X
Override the source registry of asdf systems.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \-s SYSTEM \-\-system SYSTEM
Load the asdf SYSTEM while building.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \-\-load\-system SYSTEM
Same as above (buildapp compatibility)
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \-p PACKAGE \-\-package PACKAGE
Change the current package to PACKAGE
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \-sp SP \-\-system\-package SP
Combination of \-s SP and \-p SP
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \-e FORM \-\-eval FORM
Evaluate FORM while building
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \-\-require MODULE
require MODULE while building
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \-q \-\-quit
quit lisp here
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \-r FUNC \-\-restart FUNC
the build image restarts from calling FUNC
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \-E FUNC \-\-entry FUNC
the build image restarts from calling (FUNC argv).
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \-i FORM \-\-init FORM
evaluate FORM after the restart.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \-ip FORM \-\-print FORM
evaluate and princ FORM after the restart
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \-iw FORM \-\-write FORM
evaluate and write FORM after the restart
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \-F FORM \-\-final FORM
evaluate FORM before dumping the IMAGE
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \-R \-\-rc
try to read /etc/rosrc, ~/.roswell/init.lisp
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B +R \-\-no\-rc
skip /etc/rosrc, ~/.roswell/init.lisp
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \-Q \-\-quicklisp
load quicklisp (default)
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B +Q \-\-no\-quicklisp
do not load quicklisp
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \-v \-\-verbose
be quite verbose while building
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \-\-quiet
suppress output while building (default)
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \-\-test
for test purpose
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B dynamic\-space\-size=[size in MB]
SBCL specific.
The argument is passed to SBCL by \f[C]\-\-dynamic\-space\-size\f[]
.RS
.RE
.SH Environmental Variables
.TP
.B ROSWELL_HOME
Specifies the home directory of roswell, defaulted to $HOME on Unix
platform .
.RS
.RE
.SH Bugs
.PP
Check out issues list (https://github.com/snmsts/roswell/issues)
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
\f[I]sbcl\f[](1) \f[I]ros\-dump\f[](1) \f[I]ros\-init\f[](1)
\f[I]ros\-install\f[](1) \f[I]ros\-list\f[](1) \f[I]ros\-setup\f[](1)
.SH AUTHORS
Roswell Project Team.
